Hello again my friend in this video.
We're gonna start our one point five page game design document.
That's what GTD stands for.
I'm gonna give you a template so that you can start working on your own game design and come up with
your own ideas for how cool your game can be.
And eventually we'll get to the point where it looks something like this which is what my game design
is.
So let us start off by making a point that RPG game design unlike many other type of game design is
a real battle between your epic imagination and your realistic limitations.
So I know that you've got tons of ideas you've played a lot of games you've got a lot of cool features
and stories and characters.
So you've got a lot there.
I know that but also you have realistic limitations in that maybe you're working solo it's just you
maybe you've teamed up with a friend maybe you're not very good at art perhaps you're still learning
programming this some things that you can or can't do so you want to think about cool stuff but keep
it realistic in the way you do that is by thinking big.
By all means but start small and then build on that and build on that and build on that.
So start back by creating a simple game play moment what Sam and I are doing we're starting off just
by getting our character to run around and to hit enemies and we can take damage and they can take damage
and we just want that moment to be interesting and and a good experience for the player and fun basically.
So that's why we're studying.
And then we add on top of that and add on top of that.
And in this particular lecture the challenge I've got for you is to set your creative direction even
if you're going to be following along exactly with what Sam and I are doing.
I want you to think about what your game could be.
What would you be excited about creating.
So I want you to complete the first section of the one point five page GTD which I'm gonna go through
in a moment.
So we'll go through it together.
But I'm just letting you know this is what I'm expecting your output will be in this video.
And I'm also hoping that you'll add a couple of images that summarize what your game is about and create
a simple one line summary of your game.
So that's what we're gonna get done by the end of this video and this stage you might be saying but
where do I even start Rick.
What do I do.
Okay.
The first place to start is get inspiration by looking at other games and playing specific features
or mechanics or aspects from that game.
So this is Diablo 3 and the diablo 1 2 3 and 4 in the future series just amazing we love the there's
tons of enemies coming at you that there's just a big smash fest going on you level up your character
you get new abilities there's particle effects flying everywhere.
It's just it feels like a battle.
And that's one of the things that we wanted to recreate in our game.
So from Diablo 3 we're taking this mass enemy battle feeling out of it and you don't have to own the
game yourself.
You can watch YouTube videos as I'm doing now.
This is another game battle hot legacy which I love it's a mobile only game.
It's just so simple but so so rich in the game just you fight a few enemies at a time you bounce around
on the screen you've got the click to click to use abilities down the bottom you don't have a million
of them you've just got enough to make this game feel rich.
The story is simple but it's so powerful you don't know who you are as a character but you build the
story yourself and you can see the UI here is really clean really simple just a nice game.
And the other one I wanted to show you that I took a lot of inspiration from his Torchlight 2 and I'm
really looking at the visuals here that the nice world with trees and grass.
But the special effects really pop you can see the the fire and the lightning everything just kind of
punches out this really nice atmosphere that's been created by this game.
So if you want to take some time to do your own research and watch some videos and play some games now
that's great.
And if you're ready let's dive in and have a look at getting some things down on paper.
So we say what is your game what are you creating.
First of all I've given you a link in the resources for my template which deliberately looks a little
bit ugly so that you can kind of make it look nicer which is cool.
So I'm working in Google Docs.
It's free it's very easy to sign up.
They might need you to throw in an email address.
That's all great.
Google what could go wrong.
But it's really easy way to get started with no barriers so click on the link.
Jump in if there's any sort of sign up type things you need to do then do that probably shouldn't be
yet but click on file and then go make a copy when you click on that.
It'll ask you to rename it and then where you want to save it.
If this is the first time you're using Google docs then you might need to create a folder structure
or it'll put it just somewhere in your high level folder which is great.
Don't write about the other buttons then click.
Okay that's one way to do it the other way is to go file and then download as you can download this
as a word document.
If you're more comfortable working off line in a word document.
Okay.
So go ahead and make your copy now if you will.
I'm just gonna rearrange my tabs a little bit here pop that to the side so I can see it as I go.
So I've got a couple of notes already I've made myself my copy which is here I've called it Rick and
first thing I'll do is just get rid of the notes that I've made for myself up the top project name it's
good to give yourself a codename don't stress about this don't try to come up with the final name if
you try to do that you'll be if you're like me you've been here all day I've just got mine project dragon
all right because that's RPG ish I want to give it a place holder name the summary your hook will come
back to the images will come back to in a moment as well let's start by putting in some of the details
down here in this video we're just focusing on this top chunk we're not focusing on the other details
down the bottom but feel free to have a look at that if you want.
So the genre what I mean by that well it's the type of game that we're making.
So obviously you're making an RPG and mine is a third person as my preferred third person action RPG.
It's single player I'm not doing multiplayer and it's fixed camera just to be clear it's not a look
around camera type games so that's my genre.
That's the type of game that I'm making.
Target audience.
I've said it's good to put an age group.
So is it a.
Is it a E for everyone.
So little kids could play it.
Is it a game for teenagers is it 18 plus kids are going to have all sorts of Gore in there for us.
I think we're going for a 13 plus which is a T for teen if you're looking at ratings.
Fans of old school what would be AP GS like Diablo and people who like funny things because our game
is gonna be all about funny which I'm going to talk about a bunch throughout this section of the course
the controls we're just doing mouse and keyboard for our game not going into controller just at the
moment thematic setting.
Okay.
So this is where you say Where is it set is it.
Is it a space game.
Is it a medieval game.
Is it a steampunk game.
And for us we're doing Medieval Europe kind of game kind of.
England is the way I see it.
Fantasy knights and what is it knights and swords and dragons and stuff OK.
So I'm going slow I'm going deliberate so that you can do this as well so hopefully you're typing yours
out as I go post a video if you need to but follow along don't just watch I want you to be creating
something that you would like to make yourself the tech stack.
Well obviously we're using Unity.
Twenty Eighteen point three.
We can use some audacity for some audio creation and probably just asset store for the art for 3D.
And you I so assets to asset packs platforms while we're targeting just steam at this point we're not
trying to make it a mobile game.
Just to keep it nice and straightforward when you try to make it P.C. and mobile as a whole lot of extra
complexity you have to think about.
And then the MVP game moment.
OK.
So what is these at the bottom up level where we're talking at high level with most of these things
from a bottom up.
What is our game.
What are we going to do in that.
In that first thing we're working towards in our prototype.
And for us we're making a to me that both two minutes of simple linear level flow linear means just
from a to b with basic combat against 3 or 4 3 3 enemy types.
So why are we bothering to write this.
And so we're clear to ourselves what are we focused on now.
Don't allow yourself to get drawn into a massive game and massive development.
For now focus on the milestone.
This just in front of you which is creating a simple little combat sandbox demo.
Okay.
Now scrolling all the way up to the top I've had a lot of time to think about my game so I already know
a lot of these things for you it's okay to ponder it for now putting something placeholder if you don't
know anything but on a brief summary or a hook for my game and for me it's going to be Diablo meets
Monty Python Monty Python being a super funny British comedy TV show where in movies and stuff.
Life of Brian the Holy Grail just love it is really funny and silly and crazy so that's what that's
what I'm heading towards in Diablo.
Well we know Diablo as a as the fixed camera third person click to move style game.
Okay the last thing we do in this video is we need a little bit of imagery.
This at the moment is like I have no idea what's going on with this game so I'm going to jump over to
Google images and within Google Images I'm just going to search for whatever I think.
So if I search for Monty Python to see what comes up it's probably Monty Python and the Holy Grail is
what I'm really thinking of.
That's the movie that's all the knights and swords and is just ridiculous.
They're pretending to ride around like on horses and clicking coconuts together.
It's just such a wonderful movie.
So what I want you to do remember our challenge is to add two images that summarize what your game is
about.
Go through find some google doc images or wherever you get it from.
At this stage here's the point I want to make.
Don't worry about infringing upon copyright.
Don't worry about if you're allowed to use it.
This is for internal use only.
Only you are going to see what's going on here.
Maybe you'll share it to a friend.
So just use whatever at this point but don't put any of this stuff into your game when you launch it.
That's the point.
So we're trying to I liked that one there so I go right click copy image.
OK.
Delete the place holder we've got there right click paste and then boom.
There we go.
We've got an image wonderful.
OK.
So find yourself another image or two so that you can really good feel of visually what your game is
all about at this stage.
Complete your tag line.
Complete the top chunk of text and when you done that I will see you in the next video.